[[ecoInvent]]:
* This dataset represents the production of 1 kg of methanol from natural gas. Methanol (CH3OH) is a clear, colourless, volatile liquid with a faint alcohol-like odour. Methanol is the simplest of the alcohols, having only one carbon atom, and is completely miscible in water. Methanol easily dissolves in other alcohols and chlorinated hydrocarbons, but has limited solubility in diesel fuel, vegetable oils, and aliphatic hydrocarbons.;As of 2000, more than 70% of the methanol produced worldwide is used in chemical syntheses. In order of importance the produced methanol was used as follows:;- Formaldehyde: 34% of production.;- Methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE): 28% of production.;- Acetic acid: 10% of production.;- Methyl methacrylate (MMA): 3% of production.;- Dimethyl terephthalate (DMT). 2% of production.;Only a small proportion is used for energy production (2% of production), although this use has great potential.;Commercial production of methanol is based on synthesis gas mixtures (carbon monoxide and hydrogen) derived primarily from natural gas.;This dataset represents the production of methanol using the steam reforming process. The inventory is based on data from literature and reports on plant design or efficiency.;References:;Althaus H.-J., Chudacoff M., Hischier R., Jungbluth N., Osses M. and Primas A. (2007) Life Cycle Inventories of Chemicals. ecoinvent report No. 8, v2.0. EMPA Dübendorf, Swiss Centre for Life Cycle Inventories, Dübendorf, CH. The activity starts when the raw materials enter the process. This activity ends with the production of methanol. The dataset includes the consumption of raw materials and energy, estimated catalyst use, emissions to air and water from the process, as well as the infrastructure use. The use of CO2 is not included and the hydrogen that is produced during the process is assumed to be burned in the furnace.	
* For normal methanol synthesis, reforming is performed in one step in a tubular reactor at 850 – 900 °C in order to leave as little methane as possible in the synthesis gas. For large methanol synthesis plants, Lurgi has introduced a two-step combination (combined reforming process) that gives better results. In the primary tubular reformer, lower temperature (ca. 800 °C) but higher pressure (2.5-4.0 MPa instead of 1.5-2.5 MPa) are applied.;More recently, Lurgi developed another two-step gas production scheme. It is based on catalytic autothermal reforming with an adiabatic performer and has economical advantages for very large methanol plants. At locations where no carbon dioxide is available most of the methanol plants are based on the following gas production technologies, depending on their capacities: steam reforming for capacities up to 2000 t d-1 or combined reforming from 1800 to 2500 t d-1 (Ullmann 2001). For the energy and resource flows in this inventory a modern steam reforming process was taken as average technology. To estimate best and worst case values, also values from combined reforming and autothermal reforming were investigated.;Methanol produced using a low pressure steam reforming process (ICI LPM) accounts for approximately 60% of the world capacity (Synetix 2000a). Besides steam reforming, combined reforming has gained importance due to the production of methanol in large plants at remote locations.;The reaction of the steam-reforming route can be formulated for methane, the major constituent of natural gas, as follows:;Synthesis gas preparation:;CH4 + H2O → CO + 3 H2; ΔH = 206 kJ mol-1;CO + H2O → CO2 + H2; ΔH = - 41 kJ mol-1;Methanol synthesis:;CO + 2 H2 → CH3OH; ΔH = -98 kJ mol-1;CO2 + 3 H2 → CH3OH + H2O; ΔH = -58 kJ mol-1; ****For an average plant the total carbon efficiency is around 75%, 81% for the synthesis gas preparation and 93% for the methanol synthesis (Le Blanc et al. 1994, p. 114).For steam reformers usually a steam to carbon ratio of 3:1 to 3.5:1 is used.**** ;As methanol production is a highly integrated process with a complicated steam system, heat recovery and often also internal electricity production (out of excess steam), there were only data of the efficiency and energy consumption of the total process available. Therefore the process was not divided into a reforming process, a synthesis process and a purification process for estimating the energy and resource flows. Also the energy and resource flows in the methanol production plants are site specific (dependent on the local availability of resources such as CO2, O2, or electricity). In this inventory typical values for a methanol plant using steam-reforming technology were used.;The main resource for methanol production is natural gas, which acts as feedstock and fuel. **** A natural gas based methanol plant consumes typically 29-37 MJ (LHV) of natural gas per kg of methanol. This gas is needed as feedstock for the produced methanol (20 MJ kg-1 LHV) and also used as fuel for the utilities of the plant.;From the converted feed, 1 kg methanol and 0.06 kg hydrogen is yielded. It was assumed that the purged hydrogen was also burned in the furnace. The only emission to air considered from burning hydrogen is NOX.****  The energy amount generated is not considered, because the process of the furnace is specified for natural gas as fuel. The NOX emissions of the hydrogen burning were therefore calculated separately.;References:;Althaus H.-J., Chudacoff M., Hischier R., Jungbluth N., Osses M. and Primas A. (2007) Life Cycle Inventories of Chemicals. ecoinvent report No. 8, v2.0. EMPA Dübendorf, Swiss Centre for Life Cycle Inventories, Dübendorf, CH.

[[^Sternberg et al. 2016]]:
* H2       NG      CO2   Electricity  Heat      H2      Steam      Heat           CO2      CO
-       0.723      -          0.87       2.38    0.216    0.149               -                  0.009     1   

